call_characters_20000_28900 " good afternoon everyone. This fiscal year, we delivered over $331 billion in revenue, with growth accelerating to 18%, driven by strong demand across both the Azure platform and our first-party AI applications and services. Operating income growth outpaced revenue growth, increasing 21% to more than $155 billion as we invested in long-term growth while continuing to expand operating leverage. This quarter, revenue was $90 billion, up 18% and 17% in constant currency. Gross margin dollars increased 15% and operating income increased 18%. Earnings per share was $4.74, an increase of 23%, when adjusted for the impact from our investment in OpenAI. And FX was roughly in line with guidance. Several discrete items impacted our financial results in the quarter when compared to our forward-looking guidance provided on our April earnings call, resulting in a benefit of 27 cents on diluted earnings per share. These include a $3.2 billion gain from our investment in Anthropic and lower-than-expected expenses related to the Voluntary Retirement Program, which were partially offset by severance expense and impairment charges in XBOX. When adjusting for these items, we exceeded expectations across revenue, operating income and earnings per share due to strong demand and execution in the quarter. Company gross margin percentage was 67%, down year-over-year, driven by sales mix shift to Azure as well as continued investments in AI infrastructure and growing product usage, partially offset by ongoing efficiency gains, particularly in Azure and M365 Commercial cloud. Operating expenses increased 10% driven by continued investment in R&D compute capacity, talent, and data to support product development across the portfolio. G and A growth was impacted by a low prior-year comparable as well as some of the discrete items mentioned earlier. Operating margins increased slightly year-over-year to 45%. Total company headcount declined 2% year-over-year. When adjusted for the impact of our investments in OpenAI, other income and expense was $2.8 billion driven by the gain on investment in Anthropic noted earlier. Capital expenditures were $41 billion including the impact from higher component pricing as noted in our guide. Roughly two thirds of our capex was for short-lived assets, primarily CPUs and GPUs as customers increasingly build solutions that leverage both AI and non-AI infrastructure. The remaining spend was for long-lived assets. This quarter, total finance leases were $5.6 billion and were primarily for large datacenter sites. And cash paid for P, P, and E was $35.8 billion. Cash flow from operations was $55.4 billion, up 30% driven by strong cloud billings and collections, partially offset by an increase in operating lease payments. And free cash flow was $19.6 billion reflecting higher capital expenditures. And finally, we returned $10.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, bringing our total cash returned to shareholders to over $43 billion for the full fiscal year. Now, to our commercial results. Commercial bookings grew 18% when excluding the impact from OpenAI driven by strong execution in our core annuity sales motions and reflecting broad customer demand across geographies and customer segments. Bookings increased 10% and 11% in constant currency when including Azure commitments from OpenAI. Commercial remaining performance obligation grew 84% to $678 billion. All sequential commercial RPO growth was driven by commitments from customers outside of frontier model companies. And RPO increased 25% when excluding OpenAI. RPO, including OpenAI, has a weighted average duration of 2.3 years. And roughly 30% will be recognized in revenue in the next 12 months, up 37% year-over-year. The remaining portion recognized beyond the next 12 months increased 112%. Microsoft Cloud revenue was $59.3 billion and grew 27%, reflecting strong demand across Azure and our first-party AI applications and services. And for the full year, our cloud revenue surpassed $214 billion, with nearly 90% from customers outside of frontier model companies. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage was better than expected at 65%, and down year-over-year driven by sales mix shift to Azure, as well as continued investments in AI infrastructure and increased product usage, partially offset by ongoing efficiency gains noted earlier. Now to our segment results. Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $37.8 billion and grew 14%. M365 Commercial cloud revenue increased 16% on an adjusted basis when normalized for the prior-year comparable that benefited from 2 points of in-period revenue recognition. And on a reported basis, revenue growth was 14%. Building on our Copilot momentum from Q3, net paid seat adds more than doubled sequentially, with paid seats now over 30 million. Premium offerings, including Copilot, E5, and early traction in E7, drove ARPU growth this quarter. And paid M365 Commercial seats grew 6% year-over-year with installed base expansion across all customer segments, though primarily in our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings. M365 Commercial products revenue increased 19%, ahead of expectations driven by large, long-duration M365 contracts that resulted in higher in-period revenue recognition from the Windows Commercial on-premises component. M365 consumer cloud revenue increased 24% and 22% in constant currency, again driven by ARPU growth. And M365 consumer subscriptions grew 7%. LinkedIn revenue increased 12% and 10% in constant currency primarily driven by Marketing Solutions. Dynamics 365 revenue increased 13% and 12% in constant currency against a strong prior-year comparable. Bookings growth in ERP remains healthy, while CRM continued to moderate with longer sales cycles. Segment gross margin dollars increased 14% and 13% in constant currency. And gross margin percentage decreased slightly with increased M365 Copilot usage as we continue to invest in product quality and drive further efficiency gains. Operating expenses increased 11% primarily driven by the shared R&D investments mentioned earlier. Operating income increased 15% and 14% in constant currency. And operating margins increased year-over-year to 58%. Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $39.3 billion and grew 32% and 31% in constant currency. In Azure and other cloud services, revenue grew 43%, against a prior year that included accelerating growth. Customer demand continues to exceed available capacity. Revenue growth was ahead of expectations driven by efficiency gains across our CPU and GPU fleet as well as process improvements to enable earlier delivery of new capacity. That additional in-quarter capacity for Azure was quickly monetized. Results also benefited from stronger-than-expected GitHub Copilot consumption following the June business model change to align pricing with usage and value. In our on-premises server business, revenue was relatively unchanged year-over-year and was down 1% in constant currency. Results were ahead of expectations primarily driven by renewals with higher in-period revenue recognition from the mix of contracts. Segment gross margin dollars increased 24% and gross margin percentage decreased year-over-year primarily driven by sales mix shift to Azure, as well as the continued scaling of our AI infrastructure ahead of growing demand, partially offset by ongoing efficiency gains in Azure. Segment gross margins were also impacted by growing GitHub Copilot usage, though margins improved through the quarter with the June business model change to usage-based pricing. Operating expenses increased 10% driven by the shared R&D investments noted earlier. Operating income grew 31% and operating margins, with a strong focus on efficiencies and investment returns, were relatively unchanged year-over-year at 41%. Now to More Personal Computing. Revenue was $12.9 billion and declined 4% and 5% in constant currency. Windows OEM and Devices revenue decreased 7% and Windows OEM decreased 5% driven by lower PC market demand and a high prior-year comparable that benefited from Windows 10 end of support. Results were ahead of expectations as OEM and channel partners continued to build inventory given increasing component prices. Search advertising revenue ex-TAC increased 10% and 9% in constant currency with growth driven by higher revenue per search across Edge and Bing, as well as higher volume, though growth was impacted by third-party partnerships. And in XBOX, revenue decreased 10% and 11% in constant currency. XBOX content and services revenue decreased 10% against a prior-year comparable that benefited from strong first-party content performance. Segment gross margin dollars decreased 2% and gross margin percentage increased year-over-year driven by lower amortization from the Activision acquisition"
