call_characters_38000_60753 "ibe as building their human capital and their token capital. At the end of the day, if a firm is a learning machine, they need their own learning machine, and that’s really the goal. And the models are an input, not some extraction of the knowledge of the enterprise. But in some sense you have to really – at the end of the day, every firm is going to evaluate who are the providers who are helping them with their outcomes and their knowledge creation. I think that that is now fairly clear, and it’s going to become clearer by the day. This is not going to be about, come in and take all my knowledge and benefit yourself, whereas I am not getting anything out of it. Given that direction of travel, we are very, very clear about the architectural design of the platform, which is you’ve got to keep your harness separate from the model, when the harness will ensure that your memory, your context all of that is external. That means any given model at any given time is swappable. You should and you can use frontier models. There’s no reason not to, but you also can use multiple of them. If you look at some of the stats I gave, it’s a great example of how to use the frontier models for what they deliver, how to use low-cost models for what they deliver, and in fact, train your own model when you don’t want to use any external model itself, because after all, you have all the outputs, you have all the traces, you have all the context. That’s really the enterprise design architecture that we are going to evangelize. We ourselves are using it. Copilot is built that way. GitHub Copilot is built that way. Our Security Copilot is built that way. And we want to democratize that design pattern so that every enterprise can use it. And within there, there will be a mix of open weights, closed weights. And by the way, one of the things that’s least talked about is remember, if you look even at the Hugging Face incident, the biggest thing that you should take away from that is you can’t depend on any one model. You will maybe need multiple models to even remediate some challenges that get caused by one model. That’s the way to think about it, which is you can’t be subject to the refusals of one model. There’s a lot more design space here. We talk about the frontier as if it’s one thing. The frontier is about every firm having a frontier, and the choice, the cost control and the capability that they need in order to be able to control their destiny. AMY HOOD: And I think maybe, Karl, just to add a little bit to the end of your question, which is that it’s why it’s important that the platform is built, and I think Satya mentioned this in his comments, to be able to deliver the right model for the right job on the architecture called Azure. And so, given that we continue to see growing demand no matter what model is chosen or what model family or whether it’s run a model of your own, the Azure platform is quite efficient at delivering that. Think about that infrastructure as being pretty fungible. KARL KEIRSTEAD: Very helpful, thanks. JONATHAN NEILSON: Thanks, Karl. Operator, next question, please. OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with Jefferies. Please proceed. BRENT THILL, Jefferies: Thanks. Amy, impressive acceleration in Azure up to 43 going to mid-40s. I guess the questions around the underlying drivers, what you and Satya are seeing in terms of just what’s driving this and many of the questions around capacity constraints, are we just still in the same environment or is this Microsoft just executing better, given the constraints we’re all seeing? Thanks. AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brent. First, there are still constraints in the system. I think we’ve continued to say, I think now, for a number of quarters, that demand continues to exceed available supply, and that certainly remains true. You can even see it, I think, in some of the pricing that’s occurring in the spot market for assets. When you think about being able to deliver better, the first thing we focus on, and I tried to talk a little bit about it in my prepared remarks, is efficiency, being able to get more out of everything that we’ve got in the fleet. That applies to efficiency gains in the CPU fleet. It’s going to be efficiency gains in the GPU fleet. We saw a good work this quarter, in particular, from our engineering teams to make as much of that available as we could. And because of the supply demand imbalance we’ve been talking about, when we can make efficiency gains, they are quickly monetized in quarter. And I think that dynamic certainly impacted the quarter positively. I would also say some of the process improvements we’ve made to make sure both CPUs and GPUs, just the lead time from how quickly we can get things to simplify it tremendously plugged in, was also improved over the past 90 days. And so, those improvements, again, are very quickly monetized when we’re able to do that. And at the scale that we’re operating in terms of across the entire hyperscale fleet, making efficiency improvements that can be quickly monetized does result in acceleration in the quarter. It’s part of also what we expect to see and talk about with Q1. JONATHAN NEILSON: Thanks, Brent. Operator, next question, please. OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research. Please proceed. MARK MOERDLER, Bernstein: Thank you very much for taking my question, and congratulations on the solid – it’s a really great quarter. Satya, Amy, sentiment around AI remains incredibly volatile with concerns about oversupply coming, as well as concerns about component pricing increasing impacting margins. Amy, two related questions: How does Microsoft protect itself if there really is overcapacity and overbuilding of data centers or overbuilding of chips, etcetera? And on the flip side of that, how do you manage through the hardware price increases that we’re seeing, the component pricing, and that it doesn’t just drive you to either massively drive up the price of your offerings or negatively impact your margins? Thank you. AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark. The questions are a little bit related, but I’ll start with maybe the first. Currently, the situation is obviously that demand exceeds available supply in a relatively extreme moment, but when you start to think about over the duration, I try to remind people, a lot of the expense, especially you see it in CapEx, you’ve seen our CapEx really pivot toward what I would call and do call short-lived assets, which really, that’s CPUs and GPUs that have relatively shorter lead times. And so, if the demand environment changes, you just slow down what is, in fact, the largest component and the driver of COGS. The investment into land and data center builds is actually quite flexible. It’s a smaller percentage of the overall cost structure, and timing can be changed on much of that, especially on the builds, or you can stagger the timing of the build out of, as I was saying, some of the GPUs and CPUs that you plan to put in. And so, when you think about being able to manage through that, hyperscalers have been doing that for quite a long time in terms of having the flexibility and the understanding of manage those changes in demand. And the other thing is that’s important, Mark, is you just have an incredibly diverse book of business by geo, by segment, by industry. And I feel like when you look even at our backlog or what we added in RPO this quarter, it is from the breadth of really, the Microsoft product portfolio as well as our customer portfolio. When you have the ability to late bind some of the more expensive components in short term, you have a big book of business that’s flexible. You have a big first-party app business that also uses the capacity that you’re building out in addition to your Azure platform. It does allow us to have a lot more flexibility to manage through those. When it comes to the pricing question, I think that’s really impacting everybody equivalently in so many ways. What we’ve been trying to do, of course, at this point is to just make sure that we’re doing the best efficiency work we can so we can continue to give customers great value. We’re reminding people that frankly, the cloud offers tremendous benefits versus having to make these purchases as servers on-prem yourself, or the price increases are even more hard for customers. The cloud still provides a great ROI in those types of situations. And we’re adding this capacity, to your point, but a lot of this obviously, is also being sold in newer contracts. And we’re able to have the pricing reflect it, but keep value where we – listen, for the long term, you want to have pricing work for customers and for you. And so, we’re trying to stay focused on that as well. SATYA NADELLA: And if I just add to Amy’s comments, I thought Amy captured it well. All of us are reading this 1873 as the book to be read. And so, in my mind, I think you’ve got to get the product shape right. That’s a lot of what we are focused on. You have to get the portfolio right. Amy talked about how what we’re doing, whether it’s in Copilot or the Super App, bringing all the form factors or all the way to Azure, and the agent-first primitives in Azure. You have to really get that portfolio to all come together. The mix of customers is super important. You have to recognize the breadth, the geo mix, the segment mix, the workload mix. And you’ve got to really think about all of those when you’re even building capacity. And then you’ve got to run an efficient railroad. At the end of the day, Amy talked a little bit about, even in the last quarter, how we’ve improved on the efficiency front. It’s not something that will just show up at the end. You have to monotonically work at it. And so, we are very focused on all those. And then we know that there will be ups and downs of what is the cycle here, but the secular shift is clear. And we’re very bullish about us coming up with the right mix of business and the right margin structure, and most importantly, with the right value for our customers. MARK MOERDLER: Excellent. Thank you so much. JONATHAN NEILSON: Thanks, Mark. Operator, next question, please. OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Adam Wood with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed. ADAM WOOD, Morgan Stanley: Hi, good evening. Thanks for taking the question. And also, congrats on a very strong end of the year. I wanted to maybe just ask about M365 Copilot. Obviously, very strong quarter there with over 30 million paid seats and a strong acceleration. Could you just talk a little bit about how you’re seeing customers move from pilots to broader deployments here? Is this still a pilot-driven motion or are we seeing a lot more broader deployments? And then when we think about the monetization of the product in terms of additional seats, migration to higher value SKUs like E7, and then consumption, what do you see is the main monetization or the main driver of monetization from here, please? Thank you. SATYA NADELLA: No, thank you, Adam, for that question. Let me start and then Amy can add. I think, yeah, it starts with, again, that product shape. As you can see, even within the quarter, the product shape has changed pretty dramatically. We now have chat, Cowork, autopilot, code all coming to essentially, what is going to become this flagship Super App that various roles can use it. And if you think about even the usage side, that’s the place where, again, lots of interesting data there, which is time to usage has drastically come down. What used to be months is days from when a license is bought to usage. The usage intensity itself has gone up significantly. I mean, we’re talking about a usage intensity that’s at the same level of what is an everyday communication tool like Outlook or Teams. The second thing I’d say is the overall enterprise wiring of this, it’s not like a tool that’s isolated somewhere, but it’s wired in whether it is – you brought up E7. It’s wired into the governance pieces with Agent 365 so that you have your IT Ops, SecOps, FinOps all wired in, as well as it’s all the business processes. For example, your CRM system, your ERP system, all of them are just skills and plug-ins that go into core work. You’re able to take that enterprise-wide workflow and wire it into the Super App. That increases usage so it all compounds. And then the other one is the business model. We now have this perceived business model. And so, we also now have the usage business model. It’s seat plus usage. We’re already seeing the ARPU growth that comes from things like E7, but really as we deliver more value to customer and customer outcomes at the enterprise level. In fact, if I think about historically, Office compared to what Copilot is, is much more narrower. This is the first time where you really have an enterprise-wide tool, which has a both per-seat and usage-based pricing. The TAM is much more expansive. We’re going to be very, very focused on driving customer value and then expanding with it. AMY HOOD: Yeah, Adam, and I think I talked a little bit about it in my prepared remarks, but I do think what we’ve been seeing is over the course of this year, some of the growth in ARPU was from E5 plus the Copilot license that Satya is talking about. We’ll see a little bit more from E7 really has a lot of interesting value in the Agent 365 component, in particular, where Satya is talking about, I mean, having SecOps and FinOps, think about in general, everyone is going to need both observability of token spend and the manageability of token spend for all business processes. And that is what E7 brings. And so, I think it was only in market for a part of the quarter, and I think we were quite encouraged by the value customers saw in that SKU. I think we’ll continue to focus on that through the year. And then finally, what Satya is talking about is this building TAM that grows through the year. And as I think about that expansive, expanding TAM, that’s really where we’re talking about this usage and consumption growth. And so, as more of those experiences get wired in and as IT gets more involved in that process, it’ll be quite, I think, changing in terms of what people think of the M365 capabilities. SATYA NADELLA: It would be fun for you, Adam. I think one of your colleagues put out an ROIC document. I took that document to Copilot, which is a PDF, and I said, “Build me a new Power BI dashboard, essentially.” But here is the thing. It built a rich semantic model that went into my Fabric with OneLake that brought all the data in from the external sources. In fact, it was current with all the SEC filings of all the MAG7. And then on top of that, the repo itself is in GitHub, but the artifact is sitting in my Copilot as a site. That, to me, is a classic example of an enterprise-wide workflow. I, as a knowledge worker, could go create a dashboard. The data engineer can go to Fabric and find the artifact. The professional developer can go to the repo and find it in GitHub. And by the way, it’s all registered with Agent 365. That’s a little bit of what Amy is describing as the coming together of a new way to work, even while at the same time, bringing IT, security and manageability of it. ADAM WOOD: That’s very helpful. Thank you. JONATHAN NEILSON: Thanks, Adam. Operator, next question, please. OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Brad Zelnick with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed. BRAD ZELNICK, Deutsche Bank: Great. Thank you so much for taking my question. Satya, appreciating cybersecurity is so core to everything Microsoft does, the playing field shifted recently with the latest frontier model releases, and this week you introduced Project Perception. Can you expand on what this moment means for your cyber business explicitly, and also what it means for trust in Microsoft more broadly? Thanks. SATYA NADELLA: Yeah, thank you for that question. I think you’re right about saying that the entire, I would say, overall physics of how both what is needed in terms of the cyber product and even the cyber operations, because at the end of the day, you have to transform yourself on both the products, but also how you operate as a company to protect yourself, have changed pretty dramatically. What we are focused on is first, again, take the same approach we’ve taken for knowledge work or coding, which is you’ve got to start with an intelligence-first, model-forward approach. And so, what we launched with Perception is essentially saying, let’s really make sure that you have the Red Team agents that know how to find – constantly are red teaming and finding the vulnerabilities. Then you have the Blue Team agent that is constantly going and making sure that you’re triaging, and the Green Team that fixes. You create your own agentic system that’s continuously operating to create the cyber defense you need. It definitely feeds off of all the signals, whether it’s the defenders, the identity Entra signal, the Defender signal, the network signal, the app security signal, all that sort of helping really do the context so that you can then truly create the protection. The other thing we’ve also said is especially in cyber, it becomes critical to have that multi-model approach, to the first question that was asked, not just for cost. In fact, we proved with the MDASH data in CyberGym that essentially, you can have Mythos-level performance with 50% less cost because of this MAI-Cyber-1-Flash. And the reason is because 90% of the tasks are done by the Cyber-1-Flash model, and 10% of the tasks, you still go to the frontier. This is that mixing of the right model for the right task in what is essentially a pipeline job is a super important characteristic. And so, to us, I think this is an important piece. Oh, and the other thing I’d say is from a resilience perspective. For whatever reason, if a given model goes away, then you can’t be left high and dry. You need to be able to still continue your cyber operations. And that’s the other piece. It’s cost and resilience is both an important criteria. And that’s what we are trying to build in, whether it’s in code, whether it’s in cyber, whether it is in knowledge work. And we’re very excited about Perception and what it means, quite frankly, for our security business, going forward. BRAD ZELNICK: Super helpful. Thank you. JONATHAN NEILSON: Thanks, Brad. Operator, we have time for one last question. OPERATOR: And the last question will come from the line of Gabriela Borges with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed. GABRIELA BORGES, Goldman Sachs: Hey, good afternoon. Thank you. Amy, I wanted to ask you about ROI. You’ve given us color on the CapEx side of the equation. You’ve given us color on the monetization side of the equation. Maybe put those two pieces together for us. When you look at and track ROI on the CapEx decisions you’re making today, how does that compare to a year ago, and what are some of the levers that you can still pull, perhaps from the internal silicon side, for example, as a driver of incremental monetization going forward? Thank you. AMY HOOD: Thanks, Gabriela. I don’t know that, quite frankly, my math has changed in terms of how I do it over the past year. I would say the way to think about it for me is more the confidence in the TAM expansion, the margin levers that we have in terms of both product improvements than the infrastructure improvements. We talked about some already on the call today in terms of the levers we have to continue to get efficiencies across both the application part of the stack and then the infra part of the stack. But you’re right, we didn’t touch on all of the pieces. I think Satya actually commented on a number of them. We still have opportunities, obviously, as we continue to look for the best price performance on silicon, including our investments in first party. The work, frankly, on model diversification also is a margin improvement opportunity. Being able to serve the best possible outcome with a more efficient, or both efficient in terms of token usage and efficient in terms of cost structure are also margin levers. All of these things contribute, obviously, to your point of increased confidence in ROIC, frankly, of the dollars that we’re investing and continue to invest going forward. As we think about the mix of the portfolio being able to have a pretty broad pool across knowledge work, coding, security, then basically the agent layer, I’ll call that Agent 365 as kind of a cheat, but all of that also is an opportunity, and then of course what we talked about on the Azure side between model efficiency, silicon, and component efficiency, including our investments in 1P solutions there, and just the overall efficiency of running it at a hyperscale. So we have quite a few levers to continue to see improvement that we’re focused on, but as Satya mentioned, this is the grind work. This is like every day, you just get a little better, get a little better. We actually are quite good at that grind and making sure that we can deliver that for customers. GABRIELA BORGES: That all makes sense. Thank you. JONATHAN NEILSON: Thanks, Gabriela. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today’s earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. SATYA NADELLA: Thank you very much. AMY HOOD: Thank you. (Operator Direction.) END Microsoft Corp (MSFT) 2025 ANNUAL REPORT VIEW ONLINE DOWNLOAD NOW Follow us Share this page Surface Laptop Ultra Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Explore Copilot Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft Copilot Small Business Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads"
